Faculty:
Ms. Anne Ludes, Director
Dr. Kevin Crowthers, STEM/STW
Ms. Taricco, Computer science, CS
Ms. Chase, PhysicsMs. Small, Humanities, English
Ms. Wildfong, Spanish, French 
Ms. Burns, Math Modeling 
Ms. Liz, Wellness
Ms. Post, College Advisor 
Ms. Julie, Operations Manager

Junior Curriculum
As a junior, you will follow a rigorous and well-rounded course of study, guided by expert faculty and grounded in active engagement and exploration.

Computer Science: This course begins with web design techniques and implementation. Students are responsible for designing, developing, and maintaining their own personal and professional electronic portfolio in the form of a website. The fundamental concepts of object-oriented programming and methodologies are explored. Students develop computational thinking and problem-solving skills through programming practices and learn how to write and analyze software programs. Mobile application technologies are encountered. Students apply the software engineering lifecycle model to help develop applications that benefit the community.

Foreign Language (Immersion French or Spanish): These collaborative immersion courses focus on acquiring language proficiency through the use of authentic materials, including literature, music, film, discussions, and games. Students understand grammar in meaningful contexts and engage in project-based learning as they produce podcasts, make movies, and engage in small group projects. Students are assessed on their individual progress via video, audio, and written portfolios.

Humanities: This course uses a variety of literary, historical, and cultural readings in combination with essay writing, group projects, and class discussions to answer the essential question: “What does it mean to be human?” Students will examine how the definitions and understandings of “humanity” have changed over time.

Mathematical Modeling: This course goes beyond the traditional high school mathematics curriculum by engaging students in open-ended problem solving, computer simulations, and collaborative work. Students use a mathematical approach to model real-world situations through the application of algebra, geometry, trigonometry, and statistics.

Physics: This course takes an algebra and calculus-based approach to investigate and model connections between concepts, equations, and graphs. Through classroom discussions and collaborative work, students learn about mechanics, gravitation, electricity, magnetism, waves, and harmonic oscillations. They design, build, and debug their own experiments and lab apparatuses. They analyze their data using statistical methods and report their findings via journal-formatted printouts, poster boards, and slideshow presentations.

STEM with Scientific and Technical Writing: This course focuses on scientific research and engineering. During the first part of the year, students conduct independent research projects that incorporate reviewing literature, making conjectures, developing methodology, designing experiments, and communicating findings. Their final projects are presented at a school-wide science fair, with the possibility for advancement to regional, state, and international fairs. During the second part of the year, students work in small teams in order to engineer new products – usually assistive technology devices. They meet with clients, conduct patent searches, design and build prototypes, demonstrate their products to expert judges, and deliver the products to their clients. Throughout the course, students practice incorporating purpose, clarity, organization, mechanics, and audience appeal as they communicate about topics in science and technology. Assignments consist of research papers, short essays, technical reports, and presentations. Students participate actively, as both writers and self-editors, and their works are consistently revised and often submitted for publication in online and print journals.

Physical Education: In fulfillment of state-mandated requirements, students participate in Physical Education classes.

Extracurricular Activities: Juniors are expected to take part in extracurricular activities at either Mass Academy or their sending schools during at least two of the four academic terms. Mass Academy extracurricular offerings usually include photography, disc golf, filmmaking, CyberPatriot, math team, programming team, Computer-Aided Design, Arduinos, and FIRST Robotics. In addition, students may participate in WPI’s music program and/or play on their sending school’s athletic teams with approval from the sending district.

Senior Curriculum
Seniors enroll as full-time students at WPI and take their classes on the WPI campus, located at 100 Institute Road, Worcester, Mass. Their school year begins the fourth week of August and concludes with graduation from Mass Academy in early May. They follow a college schedule, meeting regularly with Mass Academy’s college counselor and their individual faculty advisors, who monitor their academic progress and assist with their college application process. Mass Academy seniors must successfully complete three WPI courses in each of four seven-week terms, for a total of 12 courses. In every term, students are required to take one course in each of three major academic areas. They also must fulfill requirements for Physical Education and complete a Senior Independent Study Project (SISP).

Mathematics: Students typically take the four-term Calculus sequence. Other advanced mathematics courses may be available for some students with faculty approval.

Science: Seniors have the opportunity to choose among single and/or sequential courses in Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Computer Science, and Engineering.

Humanities: Students are required to take four Humanities courses. Two must be in English (i.e., Literature) or Writing. The others may be in the Social Sciences, History, Philosophy, Foreign Languages, or the Arts.

Physical Education: Seniors must enroll in either two one-term Physical Education courses at WPI, two independent classes in an area of physical activity (e.g., dance, gymnastics, karate), or participate in an organized sports program for two of the four terms.

Senior Independent Study Project (SISP): Each senior must complete an Independent Study Project that involves approximately 100 hours pursuing a subject or area of interest that results in new learning beyond the traditional academic experience. Past SISP projects have included quilt-making, cooking, woodcarving, EMT training, learning a new language, learning to play a musical instrument, and publishing a book.



Extracurricular Activities & Events

As a Mass Academy student, you are eligible to participate in a variety of extracurricular activities and events which may include:

    Biotechnology
    Computer-Aided Design (CAD)
    Café Nights
    CyberPatriot
    FIRST Robotics
    Math Team

    Programming Team
    Semi-formal and Prom
    Slam Poetry
    Student Government
    WPI Concert Band
    Yearbook

Athletics: Students may be eligible to participate on high school sports teams by applying for MIAA Rule 52 waivers with their sending schools.
 
Community Service
Each students gives back to the community by completing 50 hours of community service each year. Many students fulfill their community service during the summer. 


Application 
The Admissions Process overview for the class of 2027:

    Learn About Us through Our Web Pages and School Profile Brochure
    Attend an Information Session (November 2, 2024, or January 9, 2025) and/or Watch a previously recorded Virtual Information Session
    Start an Application (Application portal is now closed)
    Attend a Shadow Visit (Scheduling is now closed)
    Complete and Submit Your Application (deadline 11:59 pm EST on February 10, 2025)

Learn About Us through Our Web Pages

    Review the Mass Academy website to determine whether you are eligible to apply to Mass Academy, and that it is a good fit for you.
    Look through the About Menu at the top of this page which includes our Academics, School Profile, Student Web Pages, Faculty, answers to Frequently Asked Questions, and more.

Attend an Information Session – Registration is Now Closed

    If you would like to learn more or are interested in applying to Mass Academy, please consider attending one of our in-person information sessions. At these sessions, you will have the opportunity to tour the school, meet staff and current students, and hear an overview of our program and admissions process. While attending an information session is highly recommended, it is not required.
    Information Session Dates and Times
    Information sessions will be in person at Mass Academy and begin promptly at the designated time:

        Saturday, November 2, 2024, from 10:00 am – 12:00 pm
        Thursday, January 9, 2025, from 6:30 pm – 8:30 pm

    Both information sessions will include a director’s welcome and classroom visits. The director’s welcome will provide an overview of the Mass Academy program, including the admission policies, curriculum, school calendar, and expectations. The classroom visits will allow students and families the opportunity to visit the classroom areas and speak with faculty and current students.

    Space is limited. Participants are strongly encouraged to register in advance. Doors open 15 minutes prior to information session start time.
    If you are unable to attend one of the scheduled in-person information sessions, you can watch a previously recorded virtual information session here.

Start an Application – The Application Portal is Now Closed

    You can start or continue an application at any point in the application process, but we recommend starting one early so you can begin to gather the necessary information and request recommendations.
    The Apply button at the top of this page will lead to the Application Portal when the application system is open, from mid-November to early February.
    The student portion of an application includes Background Information, Activities List, Two Essay Prompts, and an optional Video Submission. Learn more about what information is required for the student portion of an application.
    A completed application includes 3 required teacher recommendations, 1 required school counselor recommendation (with transcripts), and 1 optional recommendation, along with 3 Guarantees of Residency (see Residency Requirement). Learn more about what is required for the teacher recommendations, and school counselor recommendation.
    Applicants must use their accounts in the Application Portal to email recommendation requests to the recommenders from within the system.

Attend a Shadow Visit – Schedule is Now Closed

    A Shadow Visit involves spending 3-4 hours at Mass Academy, attending classes with a host student, and meeting students and faculty to get a sense of the program. Shadow Visits may be scheduled for school days from December through February.
    Shadow Visits are only open to current 10th grade students. Attending a Shadow Visit is highly recommended but is not required.
    Shadow Visits will be offered in the morning (7:15 am – 11:15 am) and afternoon (11:15 am – 2:45 pm). Guests will be assigned a Mass Academy student host for the duration of their visit.
    Scheduling is currently open for December through mid-January visits. Due to limited availability, students can only sign up for one shadow visit.

Complete and Submit Your Application

    Click on the Apply button on the top of this page to continue and complete your application in the Application Portal from mid-November to early February.
    Completed applications are due by 11:59 pm EST on February 10, 2025.
    Admission decisions are emailed in early May. Students who are accepted will attend a mandatory orientation with their parents/guardians in June. More information on this event will be provided upon acceptance.

Additional Questions and Contact

    Questions specific to the online Application Process can be emailed to mams-applications@wpi.edu or by calling 508-831-5859.


schedule
All students are assigned to 1 of 3 sections based on their language. The day starts at 7:45 and goes until 2:45. The students cycle through the 6 classes in an order that is unique to every day based on teacher avability. 

